Well one of the typical cases you would use transition, this transition component with would be to attach
css classes,
vuejs does this for you, I will show you how to tell it but what it will then basically do is
it will determine when you for example use v-if when it should attach element and that will at least
two classes, css classes for animating it in and animating it out and by styling these classes, you can
therefore set up an animation.
How does this look in the actual application?
Well we animate an element
and once vuejs determines that this should be attached, so the condition of v-if or v-show becomes true,
and that is important to realize, I guess, you use v-if and v-show to animate in such element. We will learn
about other ways, dynamic components for example later
but typically v-if and v-show would be the tools we have to decide that an element should only conditionally be
attached to the dom.
This is where transition will work fine with it,
you can't use transition if you add an element let's say through your javascript code by appending a newly
created element or something like that,
you have to have this in your template already with
again v-if, v-show and some other tools you learn later.
So back to this, vuejs detects
okay
I have v-if on n element which is wrapped in a transition I should animate it in, what does
vuejs do? It first attaches a css class which has a name
you can set up, indicated by the star here and then enter,
so for example you could say I want to name my animation fade,
then vuejs would add a fade-enter animation, class, excuse me, css class to this element, only for
one frame at the beginning of this animation duration.
This is important,
this is the initial state
so if you want to for example fade an element, this would be the place where you set the opacity to zero
so that it is not visible, that it is fully transparent. After this one frame, the enter active class appended
to your class name, so fade-enter-active for example will be attached
and this will be attached until the animation finishes.
The length of the animation will be determined by vuejs automatically by the length of the transitions
or animations you set up in your css code,
so vuejs does sniff your css code and have a look at it to determine how long these classes
should be attached, pretty clever.
Now once the elements in, this
class is also removed,
you will have a chance to set up any transitions and the final state in this enter-active class.
And if you remove it, it's pretty much the same,
here we at first attached the your name-leave class and then for the whole duration,
the your name-leave-active class and the default if you don't enter a name is v-enter,
so you can always use that.
Now that's the theory to make it really clear and to make it easier to understand.
Let's now use it in our application and set up a nice  animation.